Good morning and thank you for coming
to the Authorization API session.
I want to apologize for the misprint
that you might have seen which
showed this as authentication.
That's my fault.
I got the changes in at the
wrong time and they didn't get
reflected out on the website.
So we will be talking about
authorization in this session,
not authentication.
I'm Craig Keithley.
I'm the Security and Cryptography
Technology Manager in Apple's
Worldwide Developer Relations Group.
I work closely with the engineers on
all security aspects and I'm pleased
to bring up Michael Brouwere to
talk about the Authorization APIs.
Thanks.
We're going to talk about authorization
and authentication on Mac OS X.
I'll start off by talking about
some recommended ways to use the
Authorization API and what you as
developers can do to make OS X more
secure by using the Authorization API.
[Transcript missing]
So, first part, I'll talk about
understanding authorization.
Authorization is the answer to the
question of "may I do something"
or "can I do this" rather than
"who am I?" Authentication
answers the "who am I" question.
Authorization makes the
access control decision.
I'll talk about some of the things,
what it does and doesn't do,
and finally I'll go over the actual API.
[Transcript missing]
So, why use authorization as the
authorization we're providing?
So one of the reasons is that it's much
better than the current ad hoc methods
used for performing authorization.
To give you an example,
the way UNIX determines whether
you can log in is if you're in the
UNIX password database and you happen
not to be in the /etc/no/login file,
then you're okay.
The way FTP lets you log
in is a similar mechanism,
but yet again slightly different.
Each protocol and each
way to access the system,
traditionally in UNIX,
uses its own ad hoc method.
And in many cases,
authorization isn't even performed.
It's just as soon as
you've authenticated,
it's assumed that you also
may access this service.
By using authorization,
you're making an explicit decision,
which means you can have a user in
the system which doesn't automatically
mean he can use every single
service available in the system.
So, you can control access to
which parts of the system you
want people to have access to.
Some of the benefits of having
a centralized Authorization API,
as we're providing, is it makes your
applications easier to audit.
Like I said before,
one of the things I'll talk about
later is the ability for you to split
your application into two components,
one component running non-privileged and
one running with elevated privileges.
The part with elevated privileges is
going to be much smaller depending
on less external frameworks,
which will make it
easier for you to audit.
Unlike on Mac OS 9,
on Unix when you're running
something with root privileges,
you really want to make sure you
walk through every single line
of code to make sure that your
application isn't causing the next
cert advisory security vulnerability
against our operating system.
Because it would make you and
your company look really bad.
Michael Brouwere So, the other thing,
it's configurable, it's securable,
which means that in the default
out-of-the-box experience,
the way we'll ship it,
it'll just be easy to use and
your app probably won't work any
different from how it worked on OS 9.
However, once administrative tools become
available to have more fine-grained
control over who can do what,
it can be used in situations
other than you've anticipated.
And used to set up a
system that's more secure.
Michael Brouwere So,
we're aiming to make it scale all the
way from my mother using her iMac at home
to a corporate or government institution
that needs a totally secure system.
and it's flexible.
And like I said before,
we're doing explicit,
you're making explicit access
control decisions rather
than just doing it ad hoc.
So, here's the recommended architecture
for you writing an application.
The application is your actual
app with the GUI and whatnot.
The tool is the component of
your application which will
run with elevated privileges.
There are different ways
to make that happen.
One of the ways is to have the installer
install a setuidroot component.
So your application will launch
the tool on demand when it needs
to perform a privilege operation.
Now, there's a third thing in this
picture which is a security server,
and that's a process running
on Mac OS X all the time,
which is essentially the part of
the system that holds onto all the
security-sensitive information.
It's--for example,
it's the basis for storing
keys in the keychain,
and it's the basis for storing
state for the Authorization API,
as you'll
So, first thing that happens is your
application obtains authorization
to perform a certain operation.
The security server will actually go out
and do any necessary UI at this point.
So, even if your application
is not actually a GUI app,
but let's say it's a command line
tool or some other application,
we can still do UI for you if you pass us
the flag saying do whatever UI is needed.
The security server actually launches a
separate process and does the UI there.
So, it doesn't matter whether you're
Carbon or Cocoa or whatever,
we'll present the UI in a
consistent way to the user.
So now,
after you've obtained the authorization,
the security server remembers
some state about the fact that
you've gotten this authorization.
The next thing is you externalize
that authorization and pass it
from your application to your tool.
And there are a couple of different ways
to do that and I'll show you that later.
Okay.
Then, the tool,
which is a Situated Root program,
which means that anyone can execute it
and potentially have it do something,
before it does anything at all,
the first thing it does is it checks the
rights of the passed in authorization
to see if they allow what the tool has
been asked to do by the application.
So, even though your tool is actually
running with elevated privileges,
it won't do anything unless, unless,
unless you've, you know,
you've checked and made sure
that what you've been asked
to do is actually allowed.
And finally,
the tool performs the operation.
And you can launch the
tool each time you do this,
or you can write a tool that keeps on
running as long as your application runs.
There's different models for this.
So, a little bit about what
it does and doesn't do.
Currently,
it's password-based only using that info.
So that means that it uses users
and groups from that info and you
authenticate using a password just
like when you log into Mac OS X.
It answers the "Do I have the
right to do this?" question,
but it doesn't in and
of itself grant access.
You still need--you need to
already be privileged and have the
privileges to perform the operation.
Authorization API in and of itself
doesn't give you the privilege to do it,
but what it helps you do is determine
whether or not you should do it.
So it lets you make tools that
don't compromise system security.
And it's up to the
administrator of the system,
whether that be you, the owner,
or some actual administrator in the lab,
to determine who can do what rather
than you having to make that decision.
Michael Brouwere So,
just to make this clear,
Mac OS X is not a
capability-based operating system.
There aren't really any
capability-based commercial
operating systems out there today.
It would be really cool to have that,
which would basically mean that in
asking for the right to do something,
you would now also be able to do it.
Unfortunately,
that's not something that Kernel and the
whole Unix environment supports today.
There is some work going on in that.
Michael Brouwere So,
the reason why we're doing this
is because we're not really
going to be able to do it.
We're not going to be able to do
it in the open source community
and in other communities.
So, maybe a couple years down the road,
we will have that.
Just today,
the Authorization API lets you
solve this problem by splitting
your app into two components.
And finally, we provide user
interaction when necessary,
so you don't have to go and program the
UI for getting all this information,
et cetera.
One thing I do want to say is that even
though today it's password-based only,
we are looking into making the backend
for the Authorization API pluggable,
which means we might support other
forms of authentication in the future.
Think of smart card-based
or biometrics and whatnot.
and when that happens,
your applications won't have to change,
which means if you're using the
Authorization API today and those
things get added to the system,
if an administrator configures
it that you need a smart
card to reboot your server,
then that automatically happens without
you or need a smart card to access the
administration interface of your database
engine or whatever it is that you wrote.
That'll happen without you
having to rev your product.
So, a little bit about the API itself.
First thing, the naming of rights.
Authorization API works
with things called rights.
Basically, you ask for the right to
perform a certain operation,
and a right is really
nothing more than a string,
a C string.
We have some proposed naming for rights.
Of course,
we list a number of rights that
we internally use in the system,
but we can't predict which rights
your application would want to use.
I mean, an example of a right might be
com.mycompany.initialize.database,
which we can't predict what
kind of operations you want
to perform authorization for.
So, you get to make a list of rights.
And then,
once you make up those names for rights,
we'll give you some guidelines
on what they should look like.
[Transcript missing]
So, naming of writes.
Writes are mapped into a
hierarchical namespace,
sort of like a DNS-like with dots.
We define like different
high level domains,
but like I said,
we don't define each individual
write since the needs of each
application are different.
And some example of write
names that we currently use
would be system.logon.console,
which is the ability to
log on in login window.
System.logon.remote would be...
The ability to log on, let's say,
through Telnet.
You could further qualify that,
let's say, system.login.remote.telnet,
system.login.remote.rlogin, etc.
One of the things we allow in
the configuration is wildcard
matching on prefixes of write names.
So that means if you choose
your hierarchy of names,
you might want to think of it in a--you
might want to name writes in a way
that if someone puts some prefix star,
it actually makes sense for your
application so that you'd qualify the
details towards the end of the name.
We explicitly didn't want to allow for,
like, arbitrary regular expressions
of write names in the rules
configuration because if we do that,
it's going to be very unclear
which rule gets matched in certain
situations for an administrator.
So we want to try and keep it simple
so that someone administering this
can actually understand this can
actually understand what's going
to happen in a particular situation.
And there's some others here.
One that's the particularly noticeable
one is the system.privilege.admin,
which is the right that gives you the
ability to run an arbitrary process as
a root using the API for installers.
So, like I said before,
application communication,
one of the things it enables
you to do is to split off,
I can't stress this enough,
is to split off the security
sensitive operations into small well
understood tools that are auditable,
that don't depend on like the entire
OS 10 stack and don't depend on core
graphics and whatnot and App Kit and
Carbon so that the amount of code
running with elevated privileges
is as little as possible and you
actually know what's going on there.
and to do that we provide APIs to pass
authorization tokens between processes.
So, there's a slight,
something I didn't mention before,
there's a slight difference between
authorization and pre-authorization,
and that's when an application asks for
authorization in the original first step,
it would be,
let's say you present a button that says,
"Press this button to unlock the
UI so you can make changes to
the administrator," whatever.
That's called pre-authorization.
At that point,
you're asking for permission
to do something in the future,
but you're not actually
doing it at this point.
When you actually go off in your
tool and perform the operation,
you're doing actual authorization.
And the reason we want to make that
distinction is that certain operations
might be so sensitive that we don't,
that an administrator doesn't want
to allow them to be pre-authorized.
Which means when you do
the pre-authorization,
you'll get an answer back saying, "Yes,
you can do that."
And then you'll be like,
"Yes, you can do this,
but we can't confirm it until later,
until you actually go and do it."
In Mac OS X today,
whenever you ask for a write
in the current configuration,
things can be pre-authorized
and your authorization stays
valid for five minutes,
which basically means if you go
into one app and authorize to a
panel there using admin privileges,
you go to a different app,
you're still authorized
for the next five minutes,
which we chose to do this.
It's a slight balance between
security and usability.
It means that the traditional OS 9 user,
after you log in,
if you go directly to system
preferences and make some changes,
you're still authorized.
Five minutes later, you're not.
You'd be asked for your password again.
It also means if you go
to 15 different panels,
it's all have different writes.
You don't have to type your
password 15 different times if
you're changing them all at once.
Of course,
in more security-sensitive environments,
people might want to tighten that down,
which we allow for.
The decision whether or not that happens
actually happens in the configuration
rather than in your application.
If you're alarmed about this happening
today and you might want to think
about trying to tie that down,
we recommend you not do that because we
really want to have the administrator
be able to control how that works
rather than the application developers.
So, the first thing that happens is
that with the pre-authorization,
I should probably skip to the next
slide and come back to this later.
So I'll get back to this one in a second.
First thing that happens when you're
using the Authorization API is
you create an authorization ref,
which is basically a handle
to the security server that
represents the rights you have.
You can create an authorization
ref and figure out what's currently
allowed by using copyrights.
The way you use copyrights is you ask
for all the rights--you list all the
rights that you might potentially be
interested in having and figure out
which of them are currently allowed.
Since, like I said before,
we have this notion of this
five-minute timeout by default,
it could be that when
your app gets launched,
it's already allowed to do everything
you would possibly ever want to do,
in which case you show your UI unlocked
and show all the fields editable.
Okay.
If it's not,
you can lock down the UI and when
the user wants to make changes by
clicking a button or some other,
whatever UI you want to use for that,
I mean,
traditionally OS X uses a little press
to the lock button to make changes here.
So that's probably what you should
do if you want to be consistent.
You perform a pre-authorization
using copyrights,
which the pre-authorization
basically just means you're passing
an extra flag to copyrights saying,
please do a pre-authorization
instead of a regular one.
And you ask for the same rights again.
The only difference is this time you say,
and do any UI that's
needed to get these rights.
In which case, we'll go off, do the UI,
and extend whatever rights you have
to match what you're asking for.
If your application is willing
to deal with only getting part
of the rights that you need,
you can pass a flag for that and
you'd have to check the returned
rights to see which of the ones you've
asked for have actually come in.
So if you want all or nothing,
you just don't ask for partial
rights and will fail if you don't
get everything you asked for.
Then you can pass that authorization
ref to your privileged tool or
daemon by calling authorization
externalize or create external form,
I think is what the API is called.
And then we get to the tool.
So you pass that ref to your tool,
preferably through any method
other than the environment
or command line arguments,
since
Both of those can actually
be snooped by running PS.
So you'd want to pass it out through
pipe or using CF messages or Mach IPC or
whatever communication mech-- There's
a number of different communication
mechanisms available on OS X.
We just recommend you not do
it through the environment,
the Unix environment or the command line.
So then your tool calls create
from external to basically
create the authorization ref,
which is essentially the same
one as in the application.
And then it calls copyrights to determine
whether the right that is needed to do
what it needs to do has been granted.
When it's doing that,
it can also pass in the flag saying,
"And do any UI that's needed to
really have this happen." Which means
that even though your tool isn't
a Cocoa or Carbon or whatever app,
we'll still go off and do
whatever UI is needed to make
the actual operation happen.
Which, the reason we want you to do that
is if for some reason a particular
operation can't be preauthorized,
the UI won't actually
happen until you get here.
So if you don't pass that flag,
in certain setups,
the operation will not be
able to be preauthorized.
might fail.
And then you perform the requested
operations if copyright says you can.
So, just coming back to this slide,
the pre-authorization again, you...
do the preauthorization--
is my mic still on?
You do the preauthorization in the app,
but not in the tool.
And so one of the other reasons we want
you to have the preauthorization is
to keep the final call to copyrights
as close as possible to the operation.
So you make the call, saying,
this is when I'm going to do it,
and then do it.
This also allows us to add audit
logging to the authorization
system in the future,
which means we could actually
track what things have actually
been done on the system,
which rights have been
granted to which processes.
And so that you could later
go back and look and see who's
done what to your computer.
And it allows for a zero length timeout,
which essentially means that you have
to enter the password or whatever
authentication is needed to perform
this right exactly when it happens,
rather than having it be valid
for the next five minutes.
And for example,
removable tokens like smart cards
and things like that in the future.
So, strange title for this slide,
but this is what the UI currently
looks like that we present.
This is actually directory setup.
I don't know if any of you
have been to that session.
So it presents a dialog that,
with a text telling the user,
you need to enter administrator
name and password to make
changes in directory setup.
So, this is what the UI looks like.
One of the things we'd like to have some
feedback on is ways to improve this.
I know that there's been some
comments from people where you
would like to have the UI be
more custom to your application.
And during the Q&A we can go
over some of those things.
One of the issues we have is we don't
want to have it be possible for the
application to mislead the user in
what he's really granting access to.
So, there needs to be balance between how
much of the user is really granted
access to the UI and how much of the
user is not granted access to the UI.
So, there needs to be balance between how
much of the user is really granted
access to the UI and how much of the
user is not granted access to the UI.
can be customized.
So right now we actually hint
the user name of the current user
that's logged in if he would be
allowed to perform that operation.
And like I said,
we're looking into ways to
making all of this pluggable,
which means you actually,
as a plug-in developer,
be able to provide your own completely
custom UI that says put your finger
on the fingerprint reader or enter
your magic passphrase now or whatever,
or speak your name.
So, finally is the temporary solution
for third party installers,
and that's the API is called
Authorization Execute with Privileges.
The right required to use that
is system.privilege.admin.
So basically you need to create
an authorization ref that grants
the right system.privilege.admin,
and then you can call system--call
Authorization Execute with Privileges.
Now, this is a way to sort of work around
the problem of having to be installed,
set your ID root and whatnot,
and just launch your tool
with root privileges.
However, depending on what the right is
that your tool is needing to do,
let's say if it's a web server and all
it's really doing is binding to port 80,
we can configure it in such a way that
the asking for the right to bind to
port 80 really doesn't do any UI at all
in the common case because it's like,
well, if my mother launches
her personal web sharing,
why should she have to
enter an admin password?
If you're using this API,
we're always going to do UI.
So we really--because basically we're
letting you execute an arbitrary
binary with root privileges.
And this is currently the only way
to do it on OS X other than going
through sudo on the command line.
So, it's there,
but we'd really like you to use the
Authorization API as I've talked
about the rest of the session,
rather than just shortcut
everything and use this API.
[Transcript missing]
You ask for a right to do something,
having that right doesn't
actually let you do it yet.
You still need to actually have
those privileges in the first place
to be able to perform the operation.
So like I said before,
what we do is help you make
the decision of should I do
this on behalf of the user.
Your application should not
run with root privileges.
You want to split that off
into the separate tool.
And you want to pre-authorize the rights,
then pass them to the tool,
and then actually do the operation.
And finally, keep the privilege tool as
small as possible and audit it.
I can't stress this enough.
I mean, any of you familiar with Unix
or Linux know that anything
that's set your ID root,
or anything that even isn't set
your ID root but you run using
authorization execute with privileges,
needs to be very carefully examined
because any potential security hole in
that can compromise the whole system.
So here are some resources to go look at.
There's a developer page.
The CDSA spec,
all of our security work that
we've been doing in the last
two years is based on CDSA 2.0,
which is an open group standard.
And all of the work CDSA and below,
actually even up to
the Authorization API,
is now open source and is available on
the cvs.opensource.apple.com server.
And you can follow the PCSC links
for the smart card access stuff.
So, there's a number of related sessions.
There's a security overview
that you already missed.
and there's a Kerberos
session later this week.
Actually, there's also a Keychain session
right after this session,
which is well worth attending if
you're interested in security.
And then finally there's
the feedback forum.
So any questions that you
can't get answered today,
you can all come to the feedback
forum and talk about it there.
Craig, who was here before me,
is the person in contact with
any technical or developer
questions related to this.
And he'll make sure it gets forwarded
to the appropriate people in our team.